.\" Released under CC0 by Isaac Dunham, A.D. 2014
.TH WPA_CONFIG 8 "August 2014" "wpanet" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
wpa_config \- a more friendly tool to configure wpa_supplicant
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wpa_config
.SH DESCRIPTION
When you run
.B wpa_config,
it will present you with a series of dialog menus.

The first simply asks which network interface you would like to use;
you can change this later from the main menu.
The second asks which configuration file you would like to load;
this can also be changed from the main menu.

Next, you get a menu asking what you would like to do.
You can change the network interface in use,
scan for networks, disconnect/reconnect,
add a wireless network without scanning, or load/save/view the
wpa_supplicant config file.

If you want to connect to an available network, select "scan".
Then you can select a network and press "OK", at which point you should
be configuring the right network with the right type of encryption.

To connect to a hidden network or configure any network without scanning,
select "Add network", enter the SSID, select the encryption type, and
if needed enter the key.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP DIALOG
selects which dialog implementation to use.

wpa_config has been tested with Thomas Dickey's cdialog (the standard dialog),
but it should also work with Xdialog or whiptail.
kdialog, gdialog, and zenity are likely to be inadequate.
.SH AUTHOR
wpa_config and this manpage were written in 2014 by Isaac Dunham, who
released both into the public domain via CC0.
.SH BUGS
Adding hidden networks from the "scan" menu is not supported.
You will need to select "add network" from the main menu instead.
If you want to help with this, please provide the results of
.nf
wpa_cli <interface> scan
wpa_cli <interface> scan_results
.if
as I need to parse wpa_cli scan_results to identify hidden networks.

DIALOG is always set by the script.
.SH AVAILABILITY
wpa_config is distributed with the wpanet package, available from
http://github.com/idunham/wpanet
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wpa_supplicant.conf (5),
.BR wpa_passphrase (8),
.BR wpa_cli (8),
.BR wpa_supplicant (8),
.BR wpa_dhcp (8),
.BR wpanet (8)
