.\" Released under CC0 by Isaac Dunham, A.D. 2014
.TH WPA_DHCP 8 "August 2014" "wpanet" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
wpa_dhcp \- wpanet tool for acquiring an IP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
  wpa_cli -i IF0 -a /sbin/wpa_dhcp 
  wpa_dhcp IF0 CONNECTED | DISCONNECTED | stop
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
wpa_dhcp is an "action script" for wpa_cli, used by wpanet to acquire an IP
address. Hence the first usage in the SYNOPSIS.

When wpa_cli is started in the way shown, it will run the action script whenever
wpa_supplicant connects or disconnects with the network interface
as the first argument and either CONNECTED or DISCONNECTED
as the second argument, depending on what happened.

At this point, wpa_dhcp will check /etc/wpa/interfaces to see if the interface
was configured there; if it was, wpa_dhcp will run 
.nf
  ifup -i /etc/wpa/interfaces IF0 
.fi
to configure it.

If  the interface is NOT configured in /etc/wpa/interfaces, wpa_dhcp will
try to configure it using udhcpc.

wpa_dhcp currently ignores DISCONNECTED events; this is a historical choice
made because with extremely bad reception, the time spent on DHCP connection
ended up being too much for practical use.

It is also possible to stop wpa_supplicant using the command:  
.nf
  wpa_dhcp IF0 stop 
.fi
.SH LICENSE
Public domain/CC0
.SH AUTHOR
Isaac Dunham
.SH HISTORY
Isaac Dunham wrote wpa_dhcp in 2012 after getting the general picture of
how Debian's wpa_action "action script" worked.
In 2014, he added support for using ifup.
.SH BUGS
Since I haven't bothered using anything beyond ifup and udhcpc,
all networks must have the same configuration method.
Ideally, there would be a tool that detects the current SSID, looks it up,
and determines the configuration on that basis.

If I added "start" as a synonym for CONNECTED, wpa_dhcp would work
with ifplugd (at least in theory).
.SH AVAILABILITY
wpa_config is distributed with the wpanet package, available from
http://github.com/idunham/wpanet
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ifconfig (8),
.BR ifup (8),
.BR wpa_cli (8),
.BR wpa_supplicant (8),
.BR wpanet (8)
