.\" Released under CC0 by Isaac Dunham, A.D. 2014
.TH WPANET 8 "August 2014" "wpanet" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
wpanet \- a service to connect to wireless internet
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
service wpanet start 
service wpanet stop 
service wpanet info 
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B wpanet
is a sysvinit or openrc initscript that configures one or more network
interfaces via wpa_supplicant.
To time configuring an interface right, wpanet calls 
.nf
  wpa_cli -a /sbin/wpa_dhcp 
.fi
which will run wpa_dhcp to get an IP once the connection is complete.

Besides the usual initscript arguments (start, stop, status, restart...),
wpanet supports "info"; this gives a colorized summary of the status
of each configured interface.

IP addresses are managed by wpa_dhcp separately.
.SH FILES
.nf
/etc/conf.d/wpanet is the standard config file for wpanet.
/etc/wpa_supplicant/wpa_supplicant.conf is the standard config file for
wpa_supplicant.
/etc/wpa/<interface>.conf is an alternate location for config files for
wpa_supplicant.
.fi
.SH ENVIRONMENT
These variables can be set in /etc/conf.d/wpanet:
.IP WPA_CFG
selects a global configuration file for wpa_supplicant;
by default, this is set to /etc/wpa_supplicant/wpa_supplicant.conf

If this variable is not set, wpanet falls back to "local" (per-interface)
configuration files, found in /etc/wpa/<interface>.conf
.IP IFACES
is a list of all interfaces that wpa_supplicant should configure.

By default, this is unset and wpanet uses all wireless devices;
people who plan to run hostapd should set this to only those interfaces
that they want to use in managed mode.
.IP DRIVER
sets the wpa_supplicant driver.

This is autodetected by default, but if you need to you can set this.
Ordinarily, -Dwext or -Dnl80211 is appropriate; see your wpa_supplicant
documentation for a list of all drivers.
.SH LICENSE
Public domain/CC0
.SH AUTHOR
Isaac Dunham.
.SH HISTORY
Isaac Dunham wrote the core of wpanet in 2012/2013, after finding that
running a DHCP client at the wrong time could cause a kernel panic with
the madwifi drivers. This version was very minimal and did not support
configuration except for editing the script.

In summer 2014, he updated it to add configuration, ported to OpenRC, and
added a raft of features.

.SH BUGS
I hope not, but there probably are.
.SH AVAILABILITY
wpanet is part of the wpanet package, available from
http://github.com/idunham/wpanet
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wpa_supplicant.conf (5),
.BR wpa_passphrase (8),
.BR wpa_cli (8),
.BR wpa_supplicant (8),
.BR wpa_dhcp (8),
.BR wpa_config (8)
